README.md, before:

Google Analytics Bundle
=======================

GoogleAnalyticsBundle is a Symfony2 bundle that helps you to push data to Google Analytics.
It could be data like pageview, events etc. It is a bundle implementation of
the [Measurement Protocol][devguide]

This is not a library to pull data from Google analytics. That feature is deprecated from the `classic-analytics` branch.
The master branch and version 3 and above will be supporting Google analytics universal.

## Special feature

This bundle has a special feature. Say that you want to post data to Analytics. You want to post an event every time someone downloads a file. You may do that from the server like any other library. When looking at the reports you will find that you are missing the information about the actual user for the download event. You can not use a segment to find out which referal the user came from. 

This bundle helps you with just that. Before we submit any data we look at the `_ga` cookie to find the user's clientId. So now you may use segments and advanced queries to analytics and you will get the expected result. 

## Usage

Read the documentation of the [protocol][devguide].

``` php

//in some container aware class
$tracker = $this->get('happyr.google.analytics.tracker');
$data=array(
    'dh'=>'mydemo.com',
    'dp'=>'/home',
    'dt'=>'homepage',
);
$tracker->send($data, 'pageview');

```

## Installation

Install with composer.


``` bash
composer require happyr/google-analytics-bundle:3.0.*
```

### Step 2: Register the bundle

Register the bundle in the AppKernel.php

```php
<?php

// in AppKernel::registerBundles()
$bundles = array(
    // ...
    new Happyr\Google\AnalyticsBundle\HappyrGoogleAnalyticsBundle(),
    // ...
);
```

### Step 3: Configure the bundle

``` yaml
# app/config/config.yml

happyr_google_analytics:
    // ...
    tracking_id: UA-XXXX-Y
```

## Fetching data

If you want to fetch data from google analytics you must install and configure [GoogleSiteAuthenticatorBundle][siteAuth]. Read its documentaion and then configure the analytics bundle with a `client service` and a `view id`. The `view id` is found in the admin section on Google analytics. Go to Admin > Account > Proterty > View > View settings. 

``` yaml
# app/config/config.yml

happyr_google_analytics:
    // ...
    tracking_id: UA-XXXX-Y
    fetching:
        client_service: 'google.client.tobias_gmail'
        view_id: 0123456789
        cache_service: 'doctrine_cache.providers.apc_cache' # optinally a cache service
        cache_lifetime: 3600 # default
```

You may then run the following code to get the page views for /example-page.

``` php
$fetcher = $this->get('happyr.google.analytics.data_fetcher');
$pv = $fetcher->getPageViews('/example-page');
```


[devguide]: https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/protocol/v1/devguide
[siteAuth]: https://github.com/Happyr/GoogleSiteAuthenticatorBundle

Commit message:

Update service.yml to use dummy client as default. Update documentation Include PHP 5.3 under travis.yml

README.md, after:

Google Analytics Bundle
=======================

GoogleAnalyticsBundle is a Symfony2 bundle that helps you to push data to Google Analytics.
It could be data like pageview, events etc. It is a bundle implementation of
the [Measurement Protocol][devguide]

This is not a library to pull data from Google analytics. That feature is deprecated from the `classic-analytics` branch.
The master branch and version 3 and above will be supporting Google analytics universal.

## About this Fork

This forks removes the dependency on any specific HTTP client for the communication to GA but it defines an Interface that should be use for this purpose. Because this feature, there is an extra step (#4) under the usage section. 

## Special feature

This bundle has a special feature. Say that you want to post data to Analytics. You want to post an event every time someone downloads a file. You may do that from the server like any other library. When looking at the reports you will find that you are missing the information about the actual user for the download event. You can not use a segment to find out which referal the user came from. 

This bundle helps you with just that. Before we submit any data we look at the `_ga` cookie to find the user's clientId. So now you may use segments and advanced queries to analytics and you will get the expected result. 

## Usage

Read the documentation of the [protocol][devguide].

``` php

//in some container aware class
$tracker = $this->get('happyr.google.analytics.tracker');
$data=array(
    'dh'=>'mydemo.com',
    'dp'=>'/home',
    'dt'=>'homepage',
);
$tracker->send($data, 'pageview');

```

## Installation

Install with composer.


``` bash
composer require happyr/google-analytics-bundle:3.0.*
```

### Step 2: Register the bundle

Register the bundle in the AppKernel.php

```php
<?php

// in AppKernel::registerBundles()
$bundles = array(
    // ...
    new Happyr\Google\AnalyticsBundle\HappyrGoogleAnalyticsBundle(),
    // ...
);
```

### Step 3: Configure the bundle

``` yaml
# app/config/config.yml

happyr_google_analytics:
    // ...
    tracking_id: UA-XXXX-Y
```

### Step 4: Specify your http client


This bundles uses a dummy http client that it need to be overwritten. It must implements `GoogleAnalyticsBundle/Http/HttpClientInterface`
The `send` function should create a POST request to the endpoint defined under `happyr_google_analytics: endpoint`

``` yaml
# app/config/config.yml

parameters:
    // ...
    ga_http_client_service: "@http_cliente_service"
```


## Fetching data

If you want to fetch data from google analytics you must install and configure [GoogleSiteAuthenticatorBundle][siteAuth]. Read its documentaion and then configure the analytics bundle with a `client service` and a `view id`. The `view id` is found in the admin section on Google analytics. Go to Admin > Account > Proterty > View > View settings. 

``` yaml
# app/config/config.yml

happyr_google_analytics:
    // ...
    tracking_id: UA-XXXX-Y
    fetching:
        client_service: 'google.client.tobias_gmail'
        view_id: 0123456789
        cache_service: 'doctrine_cache.providers.apc_cache' # optinally a cache service
        cache_lifetime: 3600 # default
```

You may then run the following code to get the page views for /example-page.

``` php
$fetcher = $this->get('happyr.google.analytics.data_fetcher');
$pv = $fetcher->getPageViews('/example-page');
```


[devguide]: https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/protocol/v1/devguide
[siteAuth]: https://github.com/Happyr/GoogleSiteAuthenticatorBundle
